Vittimista e Croccerossina: the perpetrator (’Vittimista’) will answer focus the attention of the victim to him, the victim (’Crocerossina’) goes to neglect in the relationship by thinking about satisfying all the needs of the perpetrator and, in this case, by consoling him.
Narcisista e Succube: the perpetrator (’Narcisista’) praises herself in any case, belittling everything the victim says, saying that the victim should take an example from her. The victim (’Succube’) will always give the perpetrator the benefit of the doubt.
Sadico-Crudele e Masochista: the perpetrator (’Sadico-Crudele’) manipulates the victim through fear, shame and humiliation, the victim (’Masochista’) goes and sacrifices herself, remaining bound to this situation without rebelling.
Manipolatore e Dipendente emotiva: the perpetrator (’Manipolatore’) manipulates and controls the victim (’Dipendente Emotiva’), who is frightened by the abandonment and remains anchored in the situation.
Perfezionista Critico e Insicura Cronica: the perpetrator (’Perfezionista Critico’) continues to denigrate the work done by the victim, seeking perfection in every situation. The victim (’Insicura Cronica’), on the other hand, always seeks the perpetrator’s approval, asking in every situation.
Geloso-Ossessivo e Sottomessa: the perpetrator (’Geloso-Ossessivo’) assumes that the victim (’Sottomessa’) is cheating on her, even when this is not the case, and in this case verbally abuses the victim through messages. The victim, on the other hand, is submissive to this behaviour.
Persona violenta e Succube: The perpetrator (’Persona violenta’) is violent and vulgar, imposing a behaviour that, if not respected, will lead to a violent reaction. The victim (’Succube’) is submissive to this behaviour, which is perpetuated over time.
Psicopatico e Adulatrice: The perpetrator (’Psicopatico’) brings the victim into his or her reality by changing the victim’s beliefs and readjusting them to his or her own concept of right and wrong (gaslighting). The victim (’Adulatrice’) flatters the behaviour and beliefs of the perpetrator, thus increasing the perpetrator’s own ego.
Controllore e Isolata: The perpetrator (’Controllore’) tries to isolate the victim (’Isolata’) by controlling what she does, what she wears, by asking for photographs and who she talks to on the phone. The victim tries to assert his position by emphasising it.
Dominante e Schiavo emotivo: The perpetrator (’Dominante’) continues to impose himself as the absolute leader of the victim (’Schiavo emotivo’), who must do whatever the perpetrator says. The victim apologises for everything he does by trying to please the abuser in every way.